openvpn(8)                                                       System Manager's Manual                                                       openvpn(8)

NAME
       openvpn - secure IP tunnel daemon.

SYNOPSIS
       openvpn [ options ... ]

INTRODUCTION
       OpenVPN is an open source VPN daemon by James Yonan.  Because OpenVPN tries to be a universal VPN tool offering a great deal of flexibility, there
       are a lot of options on this manual page.  If you're new to OpenVPN, you might want to skip ahead to the examples section where you will  see  how
       to construct simple VPNs on the command line without even needing a configuration file.

       Also note that there's more documentation and examples on the OpenVPN web site: http://openvpn.net/

       And  if you would like to see a shorter version of this manual, see the openvpn usage message which can be obtained by running openvpn without any
       parameters.

DESCRIPTION
       OpenVPN is a robust and highly flexible VPN daemon.  OpenVPN supports SSL/TLS security, ethernet bridging, TCP or  UDP  tunnel  transport  through
       proxies  or  NAT, support for dynamic IP addresses and DHCP, scalability to hundreds or thousands of users, and portability to most major OS plat‐
       forms.

       OpenVPN is tightly bound to the OpenSSL library, and derives much of its crypto capabilities from it.

       OpenVPN supports conventional encryption using a pre-shared secret key (Static Key mode) or public key security  (SSL/TLS  mode)  using  client  &
       server certificates.  OpenVPN also supports non-encrypted TCP/UDP tunnels.

       OpenVPN is designed to work with the TUN/TAP virtual networking interface that exists on most platforms.

       Overall, OpenVPN aims to offer many of the key features of IPSec but with a relatively lightweight footprint.

OPTIONS
       OpenVPN  allows  any option to be placed either on the command line or in a configuration file.  Though all command line options are preceded by a
       double-leading-dash ("--"), this prefix can be removed when an option is placed in a configuration file.

       --help Show options.

       --config file
              Load additional config options from file where each line corresponds to one command line option, but with the leading '--' removed.

              If --config file is the only option to the openvpn command, the --config can be removed, and the command can be given as openvpn file

              Note that configuration files can be nested to a reasonable depth.

              Double quotation or single quotation characters ("", '') can be used to enclose single parameters containing whitespace,  and  "#"  or  ";"
              characters in the first column can be used to denote comments.

              Note that OpenVPN 2.0 and higher performs backslash-based shell escaping for characters not in single quotations, so the following mappings
              should be observed:

                  \\       Maps to a single backslash character (\).
                  \"       Pass a literal doublequote character ("), don't
                           interpret it as enclosing a parameter.
                  \[SPACE] Pass a literal space or tab character, don't
                           interpret it as a parameter delimiter.
